= bio-dbla-classifier

DBL-alpha tags are small regions of the PfEMP1 protein that can be PCR amplified and are classified into six expression groups depending on the number of cysteines and presence of
certain motifs within the tag region (Bull et al 2007). This plugin extends bioruby's amino acid class, Bio::Sequence::AA by adding methods to analyze DBL-alpha sequences tags.
If you use this plugin please quote,
Bull et al “An approach to classifying sequence tags sampled from Plasmodium falciparum var genes..” Molecular and Biochemical Parasitology 154 (1) (July): 98–102. doi:10.1016/j.molbiopara.2007.03.011.

= Installation
Ruby must be installed on your system. See http://rubylang.info/ for information on Ruby and how to install it on your system. Once Ruby 1.9.2 is installed type the following command in the terminal to
install the gem. This will install the bioruby gem if it is not already installed on your system. The plugin has been tested on Ruby 1.9.2-p290.

 gem install bio-dbla-classifier

= Uninstall

 gem uninstall bio-dbla-classifier

= Usage
 #create an instance of Bioruby's Bio::Sequence::AA class with methods to classify and describe DBL-alpha tags.

 require 'bio-dbla-classifier'

 seq ='DIGDIVRGRDMFKSNPEVEKGLKAVFRKINNGLTPQAKTHYADEDGSGNYVKLREDWWKANRDQVWKAITCKAPQSVHYFIKTSHGTRGFTSHGKCGRNETNVPTNLDYVPQYLR'
 dbl_seq = Bio::Sequence::AA.new(seq)

 #get the positions of limited variability
 puts dbl_seq.polv1 #=> MFKS
 puts dbl_seq.polv2 #=> LRED
 puts dbl_seq.polv3 #=> KAIT
 puts dbl_seq.polv4 #=> PTNL

 #get the number of cysteines in the tag
 puts dbl_seq.cys_count #=> 2

 #get the distinct sequence identifier
 puts dbl_seq.dsid #=>MFKS-LRED-KAIT-2-PTNL-115

 #get the cyspolv group for this tag
 puts dbl_seq.cyspolv_group #=> 1


 #get the block sharing group for this tag
 #puts dbl_seq.bs_group #to be implemented

 #get the length of the tag
 puts dbl_seq.size #=> 115

= Finding the Position Specific Polymorphic Blocks(PSPB)

The pspb methods take 2 arguments, an anchor position and a window length that defines the length of the pspb
The default anchor position is 0
The default window length is 14

 #get pspb1
 puts seq.pspb1 #=> NPEVEKGLKAVFRK

 #get pspb2
 puts seq.pspb2 #=> THYADEDGSGNYVK

 #get pspb3
 puts seq.pspb3 #=> CKAPQSVHYFIKTS

 #get pspb4
 puts seq.pspb4 #=> FTSHGKCGRNETNV

= Processing fasta files

Processing a flatfile for example fasta, genbank or embl

 seq_file = "sequences.fasta"

 #for each entry in the file
 Bio::FlatFile.open(seq_file).each do |entry|
  tag = Bio::Sequence::AA.new(entry.seq)
  puts "#{entry.definition},#{tag.dsid},#{tag.cys_count},#{tag.cyspolv_group}"
 end

= Copyright

See LICENSE.txt for further details
